.\" $Id$
.TH "ows_init" "1" "July 2017" "ows_init 0.1 " "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
ows_init \- initializes one watt spot & sets frequency, volume, squelch & filter
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B ows_init
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fITX_FREQ\fR] [\fIRX_FREQ\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
ows_init sends commands using a serial port to the DORJI DRA818V VHF
Band transceiver module to initialize the One Watt Spot device.  It is
used to verify the Handshake command & sets the Group Setting command,
Volume command & SETFILTER command.

The One Watt Spot is a Raspberry Pi HAT & on a Raspberry Pi 3 uses serial port \fB/dev/ttyS0\fR

Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

.TP
\fBTX_FREQ, RX_FREQ\fR
Set transmit & receive frequency.
.br
If only the transmit frequency is given the receive frequency is set to the same value.
.br
At least 3 digits must be specified, no decimal point should be used, appropriate trailing zeros are appended.
.br
\fBNote:\fR the Dorji module accepts 7 significant digits for frequency. The actual range is 134 Mhz to 174 Mhz.
.br
Value Range: 1340000 to 1740000
.br
Default is 1443900 (2M APRS 1200 baud frequency)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR  \fB\-\-volume\fR=\fINUM\fR
Set volume of module to NUM (1\-8).
Default is 3.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR  \fB\-\-squelch\fR=\fINUM\fR
Set squelch level to NUM(0\-8).
Default is 4.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR  \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print verbose messages
.TP
\fB\-h\fR  \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage info
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example initializes the Dorji DRA818V module with a
handshake command, sets the volume to 4, turns squelch off and both
the transmit and receive frequency to 144.350 Mhz.
.IP
.RS
\f(CWows_init -v 4 -s 0 14435\fp
.RE

.SH "FILES"
.PP
/tmp/ows_state
.RS
State of the One Watt Spot including transmit and receive frequency.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
The serial connection will infrequently timeout. The read timeout is 5 seconds.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Basil Gunn N7NIX <basil at pacabunga dot com>
